# PMDFI
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNA molecules that make a significant contribution to diverse biological processes, and their mutations and dysregulations are closely related to the occurrence, development and treatment of human diseases. Due to miRNA’s vital impact on biological processes, it is natural for scientists to link miRNAs with human diseases and use them as biomarkers in the treatment of diseases. For example, miR-164a is highly expressed in pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia and pediatric acute myeloid leukemia. And studies demonstrated that miR-21 plays a crucial role in a plethora of biological diseases including cancer, cardiovascular diseases and inflammation. Therefore, identification of potential miRNA-disease associations contributes to elucidating the pathogenesis of tumorigenesis and seeking the effective treatment method for diseases.

Here, we propose a novel method called PMDFI, which is an ensemble learning method to predict potential miRNA-disease associations based on high-order feature interactions. In our model, miRNA functional similarity, disease semantic similarity and gaussian interaction profile (GIP) kernel similarity for miRNA and disease are used to extract the feature representation of the potential relationship between miRNA and disease. Different from the previous method, PMDF input all features in parallel into the stacked autoencoder to extract high-order features, instead of directly concatenating and averaging them. Moreover, PMDF uses the idea of feature interaction to obtain different feature crosses, and uses multiple RF and logistic regression to build models. The experimental results illustrate that PMDFI achieves excellent performance in predicting potential miRNA disease associations based on five-fold and ten-fold cross-validation.
